The Project Gutenberg EBook of Father and the Boy Visit the University of
Idaho, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Father and the Boy Visit the University of Idaho

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: December 6, 2019 [EBook #60861]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FATHER AND THE BOY VISIT THE ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           FATHER AND THE BOY
                                 VISIT
                        THE UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO


    [Illustration: University of Idaho]




                    THE UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO BULLETIN


                   VOL. XVII    MARCH, 1922    NO. 11
                 PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY AT MOSCOW


  Entered as second-class mail matter at the postoffice, Moscow, Idaho

    [Illustration: IDAHO]

    [Illustration: _The Gymnasium, Crowded From Floor to Roof_]




                           FATHER AND THE BOY
                     VISIT THE UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO


“Well, son—”

“Well, dad?”

Father and son had a minute alone together on the first evening of their
first visit to their own state university—Idaho. Arriving on a Friday
afternoon in February, they had been captured by Tom Collins, a
sophomore from their home town in south Idaho, and carried off before
they knew it to his fraternity house on the college hill.

Here they had seen a pair of grinning freshmen hustled into other
quarters to make room for them, had partaken of an abundant, well-cooked
supper, had heard a lively program of college songs, and were resting up
a bit before starting out to look things over.

“Well, what do you think of them?”

“They surely are fine fellows, dad. Tom’s told me a lot about them
before, but I only half believed him. Why, I feel as much at home as if
I’d known them for years.”

“They’re good business men, too, if they are only youngsters. Did you
hear the steward explaining how they were saving money on food; and all
the seniors jumping on the kids who didn’t pay their bills? I wonder if
all the houses are run like this one.”

“Bill Jones says his crowd is a whole lot better. And then there’s
Lindley Hall, managed by the University. That’s where Stubby Scott is
living and he’s crazy about it. We’re going there tomorrow.”

“Do we go anywhere tonight?”

“Do we? There’s a basketball game at the Gym, and after that a student
play in the Auditorium. Then Bill wants us to drop in at his house and
get acquainted there.”

“But son, it’s seven now, and at home I always try to be in bed by nine.
Why—”

A tap on the door interrupted his protests.

“Excuse me,” came a voice from the hall. “Game begins early tonight on
account of the play. We’ll have to hurry.”

They found the Gymnasium crowded from floor to roof, with just enough
space left for the ten lithe, active young fellows who were already
dashing back and forth between the baskets. As the visitors worked their
way to the balcony, a slender athlete in white and gold dropped the ball
neatly through the hoop, and bam!—an explosion of voices shook the
rafters so that Father clutched at his guides and suddenly remembered
that a doctor had once warned him about his heart.

“What—what happened?” he gasped.

“First score for Idaho, sir. Looks like a tight game.”

And it was a tight game. Time and again the score was tied. Then another
Idaho player would find the basket and pandemonium would break loose
once more. A thrilling last-minute rally brought Idaho to the front and
the game was won just as the timer’s gun cracked.

The boy was radiant, breathless. His new friends could speak only in
whispers.

“Physical Director over there,” one of them pointed. “Greatest football
coach in the Northwest. Like to meet him?”

    [Illustration: (uncaptioned)]

“There’s nothing like it,” the Coach was saying to Father a few minutes
later, while the Boy kept silent and admired. “There’s nothing like
regular, well-coached athletics to keep a boy—or girl either—sound and
healthy during college years and when they get out in life. We try to
get everybody into these sports here, so they will enjoy the exercise
they get. We have class teams and fraternity teams; first, second and
third teams; and this Gymnasium’s just the busiest place on the campus.”

“Does it take much time from their studies?” asked Father, always
cautious.

“Not at all. It clears their brains and they can study all the better.”

“I’d rather make the big teams—like the one tonight,” suggested the boy.

    [Illustration: _That’s Why We Win_]

“And you’ll have a good chance, too. Everybody in school has, after his
first year.” Then the Coach got enthusiastic. “Before long every
high-school boy in Idaho will be looking to the day when he can
represent his own state university in athletic sports. We’ll have Idaho
coaches in Idaho schools and our teams here will be a big factor in
making every citizen proud that he lives in Idaho. There’s no finer
loyalty anywhere than our boys have right now. That’s why we win.”

Over in an adjoining building Father and the Boy found a spacious
auditorium, beautiful beyond their dreams.

“They say it’s like the old college chapels in England, only newer,”
volunteered Tom. “I don’t know much about such things.”

    [Illustration: _Student Performers of a Clever Modern Comedy_]

Soon the curtain rose on an attractively-set stage, and student
performers, with almost professional skill, began the performance of a
clever modern comedy.

“Do they often do this?” asked Father between acts. “It’s first-class
training for the actors and the audience too. I’ve always wanted my
children to know good plays and good music and good books. I’ve had so
little chance for such things.”

He was assured that there were plays as good as this several times a
year, with a special one at commencement time. Better still, every
student in the University could try out for the parts and in certain
classes there was practice in writing plays as well as acting them.

Next morning Father and the Boy were routed out of a sound sleep and
hurried down to breakfast.

“Most of the fellows have eight-o’clocks,” Tom explained. “They check up
mighty close on absences here.”

Father nodded his approval.

“I think I’ll take you to see the President first,” Tom went on. “He
never seems to be too busy to meet new people.”

    [Illustration: _An Auditorium, Beautiful Beyond Their Dreams_]

As they strolled up the pathway to the Administration Building in the
sunshine of that February morning, the beauty of the campus and its
surroundings was revealed to them as they had not even imagined it the
night before. The rich Gothic lines of the Administration Building stood
out sharply against the rolling hills of the Palouse country, still
glistening with snow. To the south appeared the Engineering Building and
Ridenbaugh Hall, pleasing in architecture and harmonizing with the main
building in the soft red of their walls and the weathered green of the
roofs. Slightly to the rear was the Gymnasium, looking peaceful enough
now, after the hard battle of the previous night.

    [Illustration: _To the North—Agriculture, Mines and Forestry_]

Off to the north, separated by a driveway, stood the closely-clustered
buildings devoted to Agriculture, Mines and Forestry. Tom explained that
in the valley beyond these was the large experimental farm, with its
stock barns, and poultry house. Near at hand he pointed out the Music
Building, the University hut, and the Infirmary, and called attention to
Lindley Hall and the numerous fraternity and sorority houses clustered
about. Students were hurrying to and fro on the walks, for inside the
building a gong had just sounded.

“Why it’s a little city in itself!” was the Boy’s comment.

“And it’s getting bigger all the time,” added Tom. “There are more than
eleven hundred students on the campus right now—fully twice as many as
there were five years ago. I sometimes wonder where they put us all, but
we always have found room.”

    [Illustration: (uncaptioned)]

“We’re glad to meet anybody from Idaho, particularly south Idaho,” was
the greeting Father got from the President. “People in the north have
known all about us for years and long ago got the habit of sending their
children here. But now all the state is acquiring the habit. State pride
and state unity can mean a great deal for Idaho, and the University of
Idaho should be the greatest agent in developing this spirit.”

“I’ve been figuring it this way,” said Father. “As my boys grow up and
get into business in Idaho, they will need just the kind of friends, all
over the state, that they will come to know in four years here at the
University.”

“I quite agree with you,” the President assured him. “We are training
Idaho boys and girls for the life of Idaho. Just let us show you around
the buildings and you will see more and more how closely our courses are
related to all the important industries of the state.”

Then the pilgrimage commenced. Father and the Boy first made a thorough
round of the Administration Building, largely devoted to classes in
Letters and Science. They acquired a somewhat blurred impression of rows
and rows of library shelves, of crowded laboratories, of vigorous
class-room discussion, and of an array of scientific apparatus that
bewildered them. But they caught certain ideas very clearly.

They saw how personal most of this instruction was, what constant
opportunity was given for direct contact of student and instructor, how
every effort was made to encourage students to think for themselves.
They noted too the serious purpose each instructor brought to his work
and the interest he took in the young people under his direction. Father
was especially pleased with the vitality of the subject matter and the
constant applications which were made of it to present-day conditions.
He grew so interested in several classrooms that they could hardly drag
him away, and the Boy was sure he was going to break in and ask
questions. In the course in Business Administration they were talking
about taxation and railroad rates and other things he had such deep
interest in.

    [Illustration: _The Administration Building, largely devoted to
    Letters and Science_]

Next Father insisted on visiting the College of Law, half expecting to
find an actual court-room in full operation. He found more shelves of
books and more busy students, and learned with satisfaction how the
College is shaping its courses to fit the particular needs of the state.

    [Illustration: _Ridenbaugh Hall, the Women’s Building_]

“Mining law, irrigation law, and the law of community property are
subjects we have to emphasize here,” said the Dean of the College. “Our
numbers are growing fast, and our graduates, while still young, are
making good wherever they go.”

“School of Education,” read Father, as they passed an office door. “You
boys go on if you want to, but the girls are going to prepare for
teaching in a few years, and I’d like to talk to these people.”

He found an interesting and affable group of men who knew as much about
the schools in his home county as he did.

“Teaching is a splendid field for service just now in Idaho,” they told
him. “The supply of trained teachers is entirely unequal to the demand,
and there is such a shortage of teachers in other states that we cannot
import from outside as we used to do.”

“Do you prepare teachers for the grades here?” asked Father.

“No,” they told him, “that is done at the state normal schools. Our work
is along other lines. We prepare high-school teachers, principals, and
superintendents, and give special training to teachers of agriculture,
home economics, music, and physical education.”

Even though Father was on the school board at home, this array of names
was a bit confusing, but he found familiar ground.

“This home economics,” he said with a show of confidence—“really cooking
and general housework gone to college, I’d say. We’ve just installed an
outfit for it in our home school that cost a lot of money. I’ll have to
see what you have here.”

    [Illustration: _Home Economics—A Booth in the Christmas Bazaar_]

At the other end of the long corridor he found the laboratories of the
Home Economics department, complete and modern in their equipment. There
was a fragrance in the air like baking-day at home, and a group of
white-aproned young women were bustling about, very much intent on their
work.

    [Illustration: _Plenty of Opportunities to Enjoy Themselves_]

The instructor introduced Father to the Dean of Women and to the mother
of one of the girls, who was also making a visit to the University and
being escorted about the buildings.

“I am certainly glad we decided to send our daughter here,” she assured
Father. “The work is just what she needs and the teachers have her more
interested than she ever was before. She has so many good friends here,
too.”

“Meaning girls or boys?” asked Father with a little smile.

“Well, both,” she replied. “The whole social atmosphere is very
wholesome. The young people have plenty of opportunities to enjoy
themselves, but they are always carefully directed and chaperoned. They
have all the rules they need, but I don’t think there are too many, and
there is a Women’s League of the girls to enforce the ones they have.”

    [Illustration: _A Tense Moment on the Gridiron_]

“I like to see young folks have a good time,” Father informed her, “but
it does seem that somebody has to look after them. I suppose that’s
where you come in,” he added to the Dean of Women.

She was able to explain in more detail the wide variety of recreation
available on the campus. Father was particularly pleased when she said:

“The spirit of the University is generally democratic. Everybody knows
everybody else and there is no distinction of rich or poor. Hundreds of
boys and girls are earning all or part of their expenses and are
respected all the more for doing so. Fraternities and sororities may
have intense rivalry among themselves but they are not snobbish.”

“Do the girls get any of this physical culture, or whatever you call
it?” asked Father.

“They certainly do, and we give them more and better opportunities every
year. They have a very competent woman to direct their classes and give
corrective exercises to those who need them. They now have a chance at
inter-class sports just as the men have.”

The ladies excused themselves, explaining that they were due to visit
the Music Building.

“Are you acquainted with the work in music here?” the other visitor
asked of Father. He confessed that he was not.

“I did hear the University Glee Club in our town last winter,” he
explained, “and all the boys at the house where we’re staying can sing
like birds. I didn’t know they had any regular department.”

“Indeed they have. It is growing rapidly under some very competent
instruction. My daughter thought she would have to drop her music when
she left home, but she can carry it right through her entire course.
She’s interested in both piano and violin.”

Out on the campus once more, Father found Tom and the Boy with a dozen
or more students in military uniforms hurrying along from the direction
of the Gymnasium.

“Oh, dad, you should have seen the military work!” the Boy sang out
across the campus. “Tom here says he doesn’t like it much, but it looks
good to me.”

Tom shrugged his shoulders with the superior manner of one who knows.

“They have a unit of the R. O. T. C. here—the Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps, you know. Every fellow has to take military his first two years,
and then if he wants to keep it up, he may become an officer when he
graduates. And he has a uniform furnished him, and gets sent to summer
camps, and shoots in the rifle range—I think it’s bully! And you just
ought to hear the military band!”

“It is a mighty good department,” Tom confessed. “One of the best in the
West, the War Department says. And the Colonel and all the officers are
mighty good scouts. We’ll have to get to these other buildings now.”

    [Illustration: _The University Gymnasium_]

Father owned a farm, and soon found his way to the College of
Agriculture. “You represent the state’s biggest business,” he assured
the Dean. “I’m always telling the boy so.”

“Yes,” was the reply, “and if your son expects to make scientific
agriculture his life work, as teacher, experimental expert, extension
worker, or as operator and manager of a farm of his own, this University
is the place for him. Farming conditions in Idaho are distinctive, and
he can best prepare to meet them in the Agricultural College of his own
state, where they are made a special study.”

Father enjoyed every minute of the hour that followed, during which he
was personally conducted through the agricultural buildings and over the
farm. Model dairy barns, chicken pens, up-to-date crop demonstrations
crowded upon each other. The tractor school then in session particularly
interested Father.

“I have been a farmer all my life,” he said, “but I would enter this
Agricultural College right now if my son were not ahead of me.”

There was a ringing of gongs throughout the buildings and students came
hurrying out as fast as they had entered in the morning.

“Lunch time,” said Tom. “If you go with Stubby to Lindley, you will need
to be on time. They’re mighty prompt about their meals.”

Father expressed disappointment that he had not visited all departments.

    [Illustration: _One of the Best in the West_]

“You can take in the others this afternoon, even if it is Saturday,” Tom
assured him. “Classes do not meet, but there are always people working
in these shops and laboratories.”

Lunch at Lindley Hall, with 150 boys and a number of professors, was an
abundant and attractive meal. Since it was Saturday these boys lingered
too to sing a few songs, and Father and the Boy got acquainted with a
large number of fellows from their part of the state.

“These are nearly all freshmen,” the Proctor of the hall told them.
“Freshmen had a rather hard time of it, scattered all over town, till
the people of Moscow made this building available to us. We are able to
charge very reasonable rental to the boys and still meet our obligations
to the citizens. The rooms are light and attractive, and the dining
department is very skillfully conducted.”

The Proctor also explained his duties as financial adviser to the
students, while Father listened with approval. Then they started on a
further tour of inspection, this time with Stubby as guide.

Just outside of Lindley Hall Stubby remarked, “Let’s stop here at the
Infirmary and see Vic Nelson. He’s laid up with some kind of pip and
would surely like to see somebody from home.”

    [Illustration: _He was Personally Conducted Over the Farm_]

The infirmary, unpretentious on the outside, was a revelation to them
within. The rooms were spotless and the trained nurse in charge seemed
to know exactly how to make sick youngsters forget their troubles.

“How do you get in here, anyhow?” asked the Boy. “I expect to come
around every time I need a rest cure.”

“That won’t work,” the nurse explained. “I hold consultation hours every
day for students who are ailing, and go to see those who are confined to
their rooms. If they need a doctor I have them get one. If a day or two
in bed will fix them up, we bring them here, but if they seem to be in
for a longer illness, they are taken to a hospital down town.”

“That isn’t all you do,” added Stubby none too pleasantly.

“Now he’s referring to my sanitary inspections,” she said laughing. “I
make inspection trips to all the rooming houses when they least expect
it, and rate them on cleanliness, neatness, and general sanitary
condition. They really don’t mind, but they pretend to.”

“They have no right to mind.” Father was emphatic now. “When I use good
money sending children to college I want to know that they live right
and take care of their health. Is there a medical school connected with
the University?”

“No, there isn’t,” said the nurse. “There is a very high-grade
Pre-Medical course though, which prepares students for the best medical
schools. Many Idaho boys save as much as a year of expensive medical
training back east by completing this Pre-Medical work here.”

Then the little procession moved over to the Agricultural Building
again, where they still wished to look in on the School of Forestry.

“I got some fine young shade trees from here last year,” said Father to
the Dean, “and I thought I’d call and see if the supply is exhausted.”

“By no means,” was the reply. “And yet we have distributed 175,000 of
these trees throughout Idaho in the last two years.”

“We people in the south forget sometimes what an interest this state has
in forestry,” Father told him.

“Fully forty per cent of Idaho is permanent forest land, you know,” said
the Dean, “and the forestry problems of the state are of great
importance. Our interest is divided between working on these and
preparing young men for the forest service and the lumber industry. We
are drawing students from all over the country but we can’t train them
and turn them out fast enough.”

In the School of Mines nearby Father learned a similar lesson of the
importance of the work to the state and a demand for competent graduates
all out of proportion to the numbers the school was able to supply.

“Our teaching falls into three main divisions,” he was told: “geology,
to make the students familiar with the nature and occurrence of ores and
minerals; mining engineering, concerned with the extraction of these
ores from the earth; and metallurgy, in which we study the methods
employed in making valuable metal from crude ore.”

    [Illustration: _We Can’t Train Them Fast Enough_]

Father and son both were so fascinated by the possibilities of these
laboratories that practically every piece of apparatus had to be set
going for them before they were content to leave.

“If we could all have the benefit of this kind of training,” Father
remarked somewhat sadly, “we wouldn’t all be such fools over mining
stocks.”

The professor only smiled.

Back across the campus they went to the College of Engineering. The Boy
had been dabbling in electricity and mechanics all through his
high-school course and was soon absorbed in a discussion of wireless
telephones with the professor in charge. Father walked rather gingerly
among the whirring belts and singing dynamos, but felt more at home in
the wood and metal working shops nearby. The values of the course in
Chemical Engineering were explained to him at some length, but Civil
Engineering he knew all about.

    [Illustration: _The College of Engineering_]

“You don’t need to preach water power and irrigation to us in the
south,” he declared. “We know that the future of Idaho lies in her
unlimited water supply and we want plenty of our own boys trained to
harness and adapt this to our needs.”

The good roads laboratory also appealed to him.

“I’ve been telling our supervisors for weeks that they are planning to
use poor stuff on our county roads this year,” he said. “Now I’ll prove
it to them.”

The afternoon was far spent, but Father still insisted on walking down
through the town of Moscow while the Saturday crowd was on the streets.
He found a busy little city, with good buildings, wide and well-paved
streets, and cordial, public-spirited citizens. He learned of the
excellent schools, the many churches and the high moral tone of the
entire community. He was particularly impressed with the interest of the
church people in the social and spiritual life of the students, and
commended them highly for their zeal in employing a non-denominational
student pastor to give his entire time to student welfare.

    [Illustration: _In the Same Old Gymnasium_]

It ended all too soon—that wonderful week-end visit at the University of
Idaho. Saturday night the Boy had the time of his life at the annual
Military Ball, in the same old over-worked Gymnasium, transformed now
into a bower of beauty and bright with colored lights and dainty evening
dresses. Father looked on from the gallery and wished that Mother could
be there to see. Next day came church services in town, conversation and
more music in the fraternity living room, and a Vesper Recital in the
Auditorium at twilight. There was a mad rush for the railway station, a
chorus of good-bye shouts, and the holiday was over.

As they settled back in the Pullman, the Boy’s eyes glistened with
excitement.

“Dad,” he said, “I can hardly wait for next fall to come. I want so much
to be a part of this splendid University life.”

    [Illustration: _We Love Every Inch of Her Campus Green_]

Father was silent for a minute. Then he spoke out.

“We’ll go a long way before we find a better place for you or the girls
either. It’s liberal and democratic, and it’s building mighty fine
citizens for the state of Idaho. What was the song we heard so often
about the campus and the crested hill? I can’t quite get it straightened
out, but it certainly touches the spot.”

And the boy, still aglow with enthusiasm, sat back and sang softly, over
and over again:

  “We love every inch of her campus green,
    Each view of her crested hill;
  We love every man that reveres her name,
    Our glasses to her we fill.
  She’s the hope of our proud young mountain state,
    Allegiance we freely owe.
  Our Varsity’s the best, she’s the queen of the West.
    Our own, our Idaho.”

    [Illustration: _Freshman Bonfire_]


             Press Publishing Company, Coeur d’Alene, Idaho




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Father and the Boy Visit the
University of Idaho, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FATHER AND THE BOY VISIT THE ***

***** This file should be named 60861-0.txt or 60861-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/8/6/60861/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
